Welcome back.
In this video let's talk about all the tools we can use to actually run our tests.
Remember our tests are just JavaScript So we could just write simple JavaScript files with maybe if
statements that says you know if the sum function as these two numbers together then return success.
Otherwise return test fail.
So we could do that but that's tedious.
And as developers we want to use existing tools to make our experience or our speed of development faster.
So this is going to get overwhelming.
But let's look at testing tools.
I tried to organize for you a way to think about tests and the testing environment and the web development
land.
So I'm going to explain this.
And if this is a little complicated at first don't worry we're going to come back to this and go over
this at the end of the section.
It's all going to make sense so the very first thing we need in a testing tool is something called a
testing library.
Pretty self-explanatory.
This is the scaffolding giving us the ability to use some function calls and some new methods for us
to actually write our tests against.
Think of this as scaffolding or building the structure around our test probably the top three libraries
for that is Jasmine.
There is just.
And then there's something called mocha and like I said these are just npm install libraries so they're
available on NPM and you can add them to built your scaffolding.
The next thing that you need right over here is something called an assertion library and in here we
have again Jasmine that comes with its own assertion library.
We have just once again that comes with its own assertion library and then Chai here that usually gets
paired with MOCA in order to have an assertion library and assertion library for provides functions
that are assertion functions.
I know that's confusing.
It's essentially a tool to allow you to test that the variables contain the expected value.
Now that still sounds confusing so let me show you round the chai assertion library here and you can
see over here that they use something called BDD or behavioral driven development.
And by installing this library we can use all these words and they just look like basic English what
an assertion library does is says expect that this object that just contains a equals one and then it
chains all these words together to test our assumption.
So let's say expect that this object to not have property b it reads like English right.
It's simply test condition one against condition two.
So this is going to return false because you're right this object won't have property B and they have
a lot of things that we can add
we see that another one is expect this object to have all keys a and b it kind of reads like English
and this makes our tests really easy to read and understand.
The next thing we need for our tests is something called a test runner and a test runner is something
that allows us to run our tests.
Remember if we go back to our app we had to do NPM run
and this runs our test.
Let's press a to run all the tests and something is magically running all these tests.
That's what a test runner does going back to our slide again.
We now see that Jasmine and just include a test runner and their library and then MOCA also has its
own test runner.
And then I've added another one over here which is called Karma dog.
Yes.
And this allows you to run tests in the browser.
What does that mean well.
A test runner can run tests in different environment.
Let's have a look.
You see usually our javascript works with the DOM to make our web app what it is.
But when we're running tests and and this is what karma does allows you to run your tests on the browser
but why wouldn't we just always run our tests on the browser.
Well that is because it takes a lot of time.
We have to run every single test through the browser using the browser API is ideally where we run test.
It's super super quick because most tests are set up so that if a developer hits save on their terminal
it's going to run to the test.
If every time they needed to start up the browser and run through everything.
Well that would be really really slow.
So other options exist such as puppeteer by Google which is what we call a headless browser.
It's a node library which provides a high level API to control the headless version of their browser.
So think of it as a stripped down browser that makes your tests a little bit faster but it can also
be configured to do things such as generate screenshots PDX of pages it can automate form submissions.
You can do UI testing with it.
You can monitor keyboard input.
You can do a lot of cool things with it.
And then finally we have something called J.S. Dom and j ust Dom as the name suggests is an in JavaScript
implementation of the dumb.
So it's not the real Dom but a fake javascript version of it.
I remember the DOM as that tree like structure that shows the nodes on our webpage and that's what makes
up our UI so JS Dom implements this in javascript so we can have a dom like API to work without actually
needing the browser if we go back to our test and let's run this again I'm going to run NPM run test
you'll see over here that we scripts test dash dash and it went by quickly by you saw that we are using
Jace Dom they're so that our test run really really quick.
All right so that's a test runner.
Next we have something called Mock spies and Stubbs and in here again Jasmine and just come with their
own version and then if you're using something like mocha just like you had to add an assertion library
you'll have to add something called sign on.
Yes there are obviously other libraries but this is the most popular.
Now what's all this mock spies and stub business.
Well spies provide for us information about functions how many times they were called and what cases
and by whom stubbing replaces selected functions with a function to ensure that the expected behavior
happens and then MOX is kind of like faking a function or a behavior to test different parts of a process.
So this might be really really good for integration tests.
Now I know that can get a little bit confusing so let's take a look at sign on sign on over here.
If you go to their documentation let's click on stubs free scroll down we see that what is a stub doing.
We're simply using the library sign on dot stub which is a function.
Now we can use it in a way where this function can be called with arguments 42 and make a return one
so that when we run callback 42 it returns one and when we do callback dot with args it throws an error.
Again this is something that we'll go over later in the videos but you see here that stub is we can
fake functions and make them do what they expect for example sign on can be used to fake a server during
our tests.
We don't necessarily want to send requests to the server every time we're running tests but ideally
if a function is using a server we can fake it with a stub so that the function is still runs and we
can just test that one piece of code.
Like I said this is really hard to explain without a little bit of a demo.
But don't worry we're gonna get there.
And then the final piece of the puzzle we've talked about scaffolding about assertion libraries.
We talked about test runners.
We talked about these stubs mocks and spice.
Finally we have something called code coverage and code coverage is provided by libraries like Istanbul
just has code coverage already included but has actually Istanbul running underneath the hood and let
me show you what a code coverage might look like luckily for us we can just do NPM test dash dash dash
dash coverage and don't worry we'll talk about how we can do this in our apps.
But if I run this you see the gist Dom here I get an output file of the coverage and you see over here
that I have my robo friend's app and I have some green some red some yellows and this is a test coverage
that shows me what percentage of the statements the branches the functions are covered with tests you
see here that I've written some tests for the constant thud J.S. file some actions that J.S. file and
also for some of our components some of our card list components and now we have 100 percent coverage
for those but then we also have things like the header digest file that is missing some test and it
live and shows us which lines we're missing testing and that is Istanbul underneath the hood giving
us a report of where we're missing test now although these are a lot of libraries they all have the
same goal in mind and they all actually are written in very similar fashion.
So once you know one it is really really easy to pick up another one.
Don't get overwhelmed by this.
Just like with anything there's a lot of tools for the job but we'll come back to this.
So it all makes sense in the end and just keep in mind that the syntax is are very similar so you'll
be just fine.
And I also want to let you know that probably the most popular Jasmine used to be very popular but it
has now been overtaken by two things.
One is just as you can see just is nice because it has everything in one place.
You can just install this library and have all these little features that you need in a testing framework.
Another popular one is mocha combined with Chai and sign up and this is again probably the most popular
setup but that's also because just as a lot newer most of these libraries follow the idea of behavioral
driven development which is we describe what a function does and say what behavior we expect out of
them.
You remember the chai assertion right.
If object has this properties we expect it to have this property a all right.
Does your had heard yet luckily for us if it wasn't for create react up we would have to npm install
all of these again set them up and add them to our NPM scripts to run all these tests and test coverages
but as you can see with create react app we have everything out of the box again.
The best minds in the community are working on maintaining create react app to always keep it up to
date as all of these libraries update as well.
Don't worry though I'll show you in the upcoming videos how to actually set this up yourself as well
one other note in our tests over here create react app uses just and that's because just was created
by Facebook and if you remember react was also developed by Facebook which is kind of nice because they
use it in their own production environment and these tools are used together to work really really nicely
and by the way there's other testing libraries we have a VA that does parallel loves them really really
well which means they run tests runs tests really really fast and then you have something like tape
that is really low level simple light library but as I said before don't get overrun.
In short if you get anything from this video is that if you just want to get started and looking for
a fast framework that can handle everything and has everything in one well just use just if you want
a very flexible extendable configuration where you can plug in some things then use moka moka is a little
harder to setup because of all these things that we need to add on but it's more flexible and like I
said open two extensions one last note in our test we're going to use two things that are sort of unique
to react.
One is something called the snapshot testing that comes with just which allows us to do some really
cool things that I'm going to show you later on and then another library called enzyme which was created
by Air B and B and helps us write tests better for reactor components.
Don't worry I'm not just showing you these things because I think they're cool and trendy these are
implemented and most react projects that you're encounter and it's pretty much become the standard in
the react ecosystem to use these libraries.
So we're gonna use them to at the end of the day though we can agree on one thing.
All these libraries have really cool logos you in the next one.
Bye bye.